draft (#2072)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/release-notes/mia-platform-v14.mdx

## AI Agent Lifecycle

Effective management necessitates comprehensive oversight across the entire operational lifespan of AI agents. The Mia-Platform AI Agent Lifecycle Management framework provides this essential structure. By centralizing control mechanisms and AI Agents Orchestration, this system ensures secure operations and maintains full compliance with established standards at every stage. Concurrently, the framework facilitates seamless interaction and collaboration between diverse agents, contributing to the development of a more reliable, efficient, and efficient AI ecosystem.

### AI Agentic Features for your Company - Debug with Mia-Assistant

Mia-Platform Console now brings the agentic power of AI to your Company and Projects. Just ensure the "AI settings" toggle is active to enable Mia-Assistant access to your resources and start using its features, beginning with **Debug with Mia-Assistant**.  
When inside any Project, simply type `/debug` in the Mia-Assistant chat and start asking insights about your Runtime!

> ### AI Agents Orchestration with Flow Manager

Reviewer: @claudiafocchi qui secondo me si può accennare qualcosa

Reviewer 2: aggiunto!

### Enhancing Software Catalog and Release Management

In v14, we've significantly enhanced the Software Catalog, improving both management and precision. Key updates include comprehensive item schema reviews, ensuring all definitions are standardized, fully documented, and easily accessible to stakeholders. Addiotionally, the manifests for the public items in the Mia-Platform catalog are now publicly available [here], offering greater transparency.

### Software Items Lifecycle renewed

We've also revamped the **release life cycle** with new stages like `Coming soon`,`Draft`,`Published`,`Maintenance`,`Deprecated`,`Archived`, and `Deleted`. These changes create a more structured and adaptable framework for managing catalog items, from development to retirement, making the process more efficient and reliable.

> ### Headless Catalog

Reviewer: @claudiafocchi io qui parlerei di tutto il lavoro sulle API e del fatto che è possibile trattare il catalog come se fosse un headless catalog con cui interagire tramite API. Se non ti torna o non ti è chiaro cosa intendo sentiamoci

Reviewer 2: aggiunto!

[...]

## Real time data integration

The Real-Time Data Integration capability is focusing on streamlining data collection processes from various sources, automatically enriching datasets with pertinent metadata for improved context and usability, and establishing governed mechanisms for controlled data access. This suite facilitates real-time decoupling between systems by enabling asynchronous data exchange, thereby providing the continuous, low-latency data flows necessary to fuel the core platform operations and power associated Artificial Intelligence functions.

### Data Lineage

> [...]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Data Lineage

Mia-Platform Data Catalog introduces **Data Lineage**, a powerful tool for understanding, visualizing, and describing the flow and transformations of data within an organization.  
This feature allows users to explore data relationships at two complementary levels: **Table Lineage** and **System of Record (SoR) Lineage**, providing both granular insights and a holistic overview of data flows.  
By offering a detailed visualization of data dependencies and relationships, the **Lineage** view enables users to perform impact analyses, identify potential bottlenecks, and ensure compliance across data workflows.  
Users can enrich the **Lineage** with **virtual assets** and **jobs**, allowing them to complete relationships not yet automatically retrieved and to clearly describe the context and purpose of each data flow.  
If you're using **Fast Data Control Plane**, aggregation processes configured within your **Fast Data Projects** are automatically captured, making **Fast Data jobs** directly visible on the **Lineage** canvas.

To find out how it works and all the benefits of our Data Lineage solution, please refer to the related [documentation](/data_catalog/frontend/data_lineage.mdx).

### Integration Connector Agent

The **Integration Connector Agent** is a modular plugin designed to enable seamless **data integration** between external **sources** and **sinks**.  
It collects data from external systems, processes and normalizes it, and then sends the data to a defined sink. The Agent supports multiple sources, including **webhooks** from services such as **Mia-Platform Console** and **Jira**, and integrates with **MongoDB** as the current supported sink.  
Thanks to its pluggable architecture, it allows easy integration of new sources and sinks with minimal configuration effort.  

By automating data flows and ensuring consistency across platforms, the Integration Connector Agent centralizes data storage, enabling the collection of information from multiple sources and its storage in the target destination. It also facilitates **data synchronization and transformation**, improving data accessibility, streamlining workflows, and supporting more effective reporting and decision-making across systems.

To learn more about all the features and how to configure it, visit the [official documentation](/runtime_suite/integration-connector-agent/10_overview.md).
```

> ### Feature

Reviewer: @albertotessarotto aggiungi qui altre feature per la parte data fabric

Reviewer 3: aggiunte!

> ### Feature
> 
> [...]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

### Centralized management of the Container Registries

You can now manage your container registries more effectively within your Projects. Access a dedicated section in your Project settings to view, create, and delete registries as needed. This provides centralized monitoring and control over your container registry landscape and allows you to specify the desired registry directly at the service level in the Design area.

### Monitor Audit Logs of your Company 

Stay informed and in control with our new Audit Logs feature, designed to provide clear visibility into actions performed across your Company. Effortlessly track and monitor user activities through this powerful and centralized tool. By centralizing these logs, you can significantly enhance security protocols, streamline compliance efforts, and develop a deeper understanding of your Company's operational flow.

bonus ? 
### Compare different revisions
### Configuration Saved webhook 
### Specificy the Rate limit for Endpoints' subroutes

> ### Support for custom port and HTTP/2 protocol in Endpoints Configuration

Reviewer 4: to be removed

Reviewer: non dimentichiamoci di rimuoverle queste

      borderRadius: '8px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.3rem',
    }}>
    {children}
  </span>
);

**Welcome to Mia-Platform v14!**

## AI Native DevX

AI-Native Developer Experience (DevX) focuses on enhancing engineering productivity through the strategic integration of Artificial Intelligence capabilities directly into the developer workflow. A core component of this approach involves leveraging AI-based conversational experiences. These intelligent interfaces are designed to provide immediate, context-aware assistance tailored to individual developer needs and workflows, simplify the discovery and utilization of available services, and surface actionable insights derived from operational data, ultimately fostering a more efficient and empowered development environment.

### Clone Microservice repository via Cursor AI IDE 

Now you can easily clone your Microservice repository into the Cursor AI IDE directly from the Mia-Platform Console. This integration provides an easy way to access your service code, enabling a smoother development experience powered by the intelligence of Cursor AI, with support for both `ssh` and `https` protocols.

## AI Agent Lifecycle

> Effective management necessitates comprehensive oversight across the entire operational lifespan of AI agents. The Mia-Platform AI Agent Lifecycle Management framework provides this essential structure. By centralizing control mechanisms and AI Agents Orchestration, this system ensures secure operations and maintains full compliance with established standards at every stage. Concurrently, the framework facilitates seamless interaction and collaboration between diverse agents, contributing to the development of a more reliable, efficient, and efficient AI ecosystem.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Effective management necessitates comprehensive oversight across the entire operational lifespan of AI agents. The Mia-Platform AI Agent Lifecycle Management framework provides this essential structure. By centralizing control mechanisms and AI Agents Orchestration, this system ensures secure operations and maintains full compliance with established standards at every stage. Concurrently, the framework facilitates seamless interaction and collaboration between diverse agents, contributing to the development of a more reliable and efficient AI ecosystem.
```

Reviewer 5: è un typo?

![SC new release stages](img/software-catalog-release-stages.png)

### Headless Catalog

Furthermore, the marketplace APIs have been optimized and are now officially published on the API portal, ensuring easy access for all users.

## Real time data integration

The Real-Time Data Integration capability is focusing on streamlining data collection processes from various sources, automatically enriching datasets with pertinent metadata for improved context and usability, and establishing governed mechanisms for controlled data access. This suite facilitates real-time decoupling between systems by enabling asynchronous data exchange, thereby providing the continuous, low-latency data flows necessary to fuel the core platform operations and power associated Artificial Intelligence functions.

### Data Lineage

Mia-Platform Data Catalog introduces **Data Lineage**, a powerful tool for understanding, visualizing, and describing the flow and transformations of data within an organization.  

> ![Data Lineage Overview](img/data-lineage-overview.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![Data Lineage Overview](img/data-lineage-overview.png)

This feature allows users to explore data relationships at two complementary levels: **Table Lineage** and **System of Record (SoR) Lineage**, providing both granular insights and a holistic overview of data flows.  
By offering a detailed visualization of data dependencies and relationships, the **Lineage** view enables users to perform impact analyses, identify potential bottlenecks, and ensure compliance across data workflows.  
Users can enrich the **Lineage** with **virtual assets** and **jobs**, allowing them to complete relationships not yet automatically retrieved and to clearly describe the context and purpose of each data flow.  
If you're using **Fast Data Control Plane**, aggregation processes configured within your **Fast Data Projects** are automatically captured, making **Fast Data jobs** directly visible on the **Lineage** canvas.

```

### Software Items Lifecycle renewed

We've also revamped the **release life cycle** with new stages like `Coming soon`,`Draft`,`Published`,`Maintenance`,`Deprecated`,`Archived`, and `Deleted`. These changes provide a more structured and adaptable framework for managing catalog items, from development to retirement, making the process more efficient and reliable.

![SC new release stages](img/software-catalog-release-stages.png)

### Headless Catalog

Furthermore, the marketplace APIs have been optimized and are now officially published on the API portal, ensuring easy access for all users.

## Real time data integration

The Real-Time Data Integration capability is focusing on streamlining data collection processes from various sources, automatically enriching datasets with pertinent metadata for improved context and usability, and establishing governed mechanisms for controlled data access. This suite facilitates real-time decoupling between systems by enabling asynchronous data exchange, thereby providing the continuous, low-latency data flows necessary to fuel the core platform operations and power associated Artificial Intelligence functions.

### Data Lineage

> Mia-Platform Data Catalog introduces **Data Lineage**, a powerful tool for understanding, visualizing, and describing the flow and transformations of data within an organization.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Mia-Platform Data Catalog introduces **Data Lineage**, a powerful tool for understanding, visualizing, and describing the flow and transformations of data within an organization.  

![Data Lineage Overview](img/data-lineage-overview.png)

```

### Software Items Lifecycle renewed

We've also revamped the **release life cycle** with new stages like `Coming soon`,`Draft`,`Published`,`Maintenance`,`Deprecated`,`Archived`, and `Deleted`. These changes provide a more structured and adaptable framework for managing catalog items, from development to retirement, making the process more efficient and reliable.

![SC new release stages](img/software-catalog-release-stages.png)

### Headless Catalog

Furthermore, the marketplace APIs have been optimized and are now officially published on the API portal, ensuring easy access for all users.

## Real time data integration

The Real-Time Data Integration capability is focusing on streamlining data collection processes from various sources, automatically enriching datasets with pertinent metadata for improved context and usability, and establishing governed mechanisms for controlled data access. This suite facilitates real-time decoupling between systems by enabling asynchronous data exchange, thereby providing the continuous, low-latency data flows necessary to fuel the core platform operations and power associated Artificial Intelligence functions.

> ### Data Lineage
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

### AI Agentic Features for your Company - Debug with Mia-Assistant

Mia-Platform Console now brings the agentic power of AI to your Company and Projects. Just ensure the "AI settings" toggle is active to enable Mia-Assistant access to your resources and start using its features, beginning with **Debug with Mia-Assistant**.  
When inside any Project, simply type `/debug` in the Mia-Assistant chat and start asking insights about your Runtime!

### AI Agents Orchestration with Flow Manager

The Flow Manager now allows for seamless orchestration of **AI Agents** within workflows. This new functionality enables users to integrate and manage multiple AI agents, coordinating their actions to automate complex tasks more efficiently. 
By using the Flow Manager Configurator, organizations can improve operational efficiency, ensuring that AI agents collaborate effectively to deliver faster and more accurate results.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

### AI-Powered Data Discovery for DPOs: Enhancing the Data Catalog Experience

To meet the increasing demand for accessible, reliable, and governance-oriented Data Discovery, the Data Catalog has been enhanced with an AI Assistant. Through a dedicated user interface, users - *especially non-technical roles like Data Protection Officers (DPOs)* - can interact with a chat system to explore metadata and information about data assets (e.g., sensitive data fields) using natural language.

For example, the AI Assistant allows users to ask questions such as:

- "_What categories of personal data are processed?_"
- "_Who has access to the data? Are they all internal employees or also external consultants?_"
- "_Is there any data transfer, and if so, where? Within the EU or outside?_"
- "_Which personal data assets are classified as sensitive under GDPR, and where are they stored?_"

Behind the scenes, the assistant leverages advanced LLM technologies (e.g., Gemini 1.5 Pro / 2.0 Flash) and structured metadata to deliver accurate, human-readable responses. It analyzes datasets, metadata, and governance information to surface well-structured, context-aware answers.

For DPOs, this transforms the Data Catalog from a technical repository into a practical tool for compliance and governance. It enables:

- Transparent, on-demand access to data-related information  
- Simplified GDPR audit preparation and documentation  
- Improved collaboration with data owners through a shared, accessible language  
- Reduced dependency on technical teams, saving time and effort  

Ultimately, this AI-powered integration bridges the gap between legal, compliance, and data teams, making data governance more inclusive, efficient, and effective.

```

![SC new release stages](img/software-catalog-release-stages.png)

### Headless Catalog

Furthermore, the marketplace APIs have been optimized and are now officially published on the API portal, ensuring easy access for all users.

## Real time data integration

The Real-Time Data Integration capability is focusing on streamlining data collection processes from various sources, automatically enriching datasets with pertinent metadata for improved context and usability, and establishing governed mechanisms for controlled data access. This suite facilitates real-time decoupling between systems by enabling asynchronous data exchange, thereby providing the continuous, low-latency data flows necessary to fuel the core platform operations and power associated Artificial Intelligence functions.

### Data Lineage

Mia-Platform Data Catalog introduces **Data Lineage**, a powerful tool for understanding, visualizing, and describing the flow and transformations of data within an organization.  

![Data Lineage Overview](img/data-lineage-overview.png)

> 
> 
> ![Data Lineage Overview](img/data-lineage-overview.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

---
id: v14-overview
title: Mia-Platform v14
sidebar_label: v14 Overview
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
  <span
    style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '8px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.3rem',
    }}>
    {children}
  </span>
);

**Welcome to Mia-Platform v14!**

> ## AI Native DevX

Reviewer: @Massibian qua potete aggiungere la parte di agenti AI. Ho scritto una frase generica ma lascerei a voi la riscrittura per aggiungere anche quella parte

Thanks to its pluggable architecture, it allows easy integration of new sources and sinks with minimal configuration effort.  

By automating data flows and ensuring consistency across platforms, the Integration Connector Agent centralizes data storage, enabling the collection of information from multiple sources and its storage in the target destination. It also facilitates **data synchronization and transformation**, improving data accessibility, streamlining workflows, and supporting more effective reporting and decision-making across systems.

To learn more about all the features and how to configure it, visit the [official documentation](/runtime_suite/integration-connector-agent/10_overview.md).

### New Flow Manager Configurator layout

The Flow Manager Configurator layout has been redesigned to provide enhanced control and visibility. Users can now easily view and manage flows, add external executors, and track commands, events, and state transitions, improving the efficiency and flexibility of self-service application management.

> ![FM Configurator New Layout](img/flow-manager-configurator-new-layout.png)

Reviewer 3: @claudiafocchi I suppose it has to be moved under self-service application development domain

### AI Agentic Features for your Company - Debug with Mia-Assistant

Mia-Platform Console now brings the agentic power of AI to your Company and Projects. Just ensure the "AI settings" toggle is active to enable Mia-Assistant access to your resources and start using its features, beginning with **Debug with Mia-Assistant**.  
When inside any Project, simply type `/debug` in the Mia-Assistant chat and start asking insights about your Runtime!

### AI Agents Orchestration with Flow Manager

The Flow Manager now allows for seamless orchestration of **AI Agents** within workflows. This new functionality enables users to integrate and manage multiple AI agents, coordinating their actions to automate complex tasks more efficiently. 
By using the Flow Manager Configurator, organizations can improve operational efficiency, ensuring that AI agents collaborate effectively to deliver faster and more accurate results.

> ### AI-Powered Data Discovery for DPOs: Enhancing the Data Catalog Experience

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### AI-Powered Data Discovery: Enhancing the Data Catalog Experience
```

For example, the AI Assistant allows users to ask questions such as:

- "_What categories of personal data are processed?_"
- "_Who has access to the data? Are they all internal employees or also external consultants?_"
- "_Is there any data transfer, and if so, where? Within the EU or outside?_"
- "_Which personal data assets are classified as sensitive under GDPR, and where are they stored?_"

Behind the scenes, the assistant leverages advanced LLM technologies (e.g., Gemini 1.5 Pro / 2.0 Flash) and structured metadata to deliver accurate, human-readable responses. It analyzes datasets, metadata, and governance information to surface well-structured, context-aware answers.

For DPOs, this transforms the Data Catalog from a technical repository into a practical tool for compliance and governance. It enables:

- Transparent, on-demand access to data-related information  
- Simplified GDPR audit preparation and documentation  
- Improved collaboration with data owners through a shared, accessible language  
- Reduced dependency on technical teams, saving time and effort  

> Ultimately, this AI-powered integration bridges the gap between legal, compliance, and data teams, making data governance more inclusive, efficient, and effective.

Reviewer 3: @davidebianchi @TheRusCompass I've added the AI for DPOs in Data Catalog paragraph, let me know

## AI Agent Lifecycle

Effective management necessitates comprehensive oversight across the entire operational lifespan of AI agents. The Mia-Platform AI Agent Lifecycle Management framework provides this essential structure. By centralizing control mechanisms and AI Agents Orchestration, this system ensures secure operations and maintains full compliance with established standards at every stage. Concurrently, the framework facilitates seamless interaction and collaboration between diverse agents, contributing to the development of a more reliable and efficient AI ecosystem.

### AI Agents Orchestration with Flow Manager

The Flow Manager now supports seamless orchestration of AI Agents within end-to-end workflows. This powerful new capability allows users to integrate and coordinate multiple agents, enabling the automation of complex tasks with greater efficiency.

Using the Flow Manager Configurator, organizations can boost operational performance by ensuring AI agents work together intelligently—delivering faster, more accurate outcomes through streamlined collaboration.

> ### Mia-Platform Console MCP Server

Reviewer: we have time up to the release in production of the v14 about the local or remote availability of the MCP server. Just keep me posted and we can add it later on

The Self-Service Application Development paradigm aims to significantly accelerate software delivery timelines. This acceleration is realized through the provision of a Software Catalog, which offers readily available, reusable components, coupled with access to a suite of composable and orchestrated technologies. The entire process operates within a framework of flexible governance, strategically designed to abstract underlying complexities and thereby permit development teams to dedicate their primary focus to the implementation of essential business logic.

> ### Enhancing Software Catalog and Release Management

Reviewer 6: @claudiafocchi 

Questa sezione è giusta? Mi sembra che software items lifecycle e ennhancing software catalog facciano parte dello stesso capitolo. Sono due feature diverse?

> Introducing the new MCP Server for Mia-Platform Console, engineered to enhance how your applications integrate with Large Language Models (LLMs). This feature acts as an intelligent, structured communication layer, following Model Context Protocol principles, allowing you to clearly organize and send instructions, history, tool definitions, and retrieved data to AI models. The MCP Server significantly accelerates the development of AI-driven features, boosts the reliability and accuracy of AI interactions, and seamlessly unlocks advanced capabilities like tool use and RAG, all natively within your Mia-Platform environment. This first version will be able to interact with Console APIs to simplify interactions with the different Console sections through a conversational interface interacting with the MCP Server.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Introducing the new Open Source [MCP Server](https://github.com/mia-platform/console-mcp-server) for Mia-Platform Console, engineered to enhance how your applications integrate with Large Language Models (LLMs). This feature acts as an intelligent, structured communication layer, following Model Context Protocol principles, allowing you to clearly organize and send instructions, history, tool definitions, and retrieved data to AI models. The MCP Server significantly accelerates the development of AI-driven features, boosts the reliability and accuracy of AI interactions, and seamlessly unlocks advanced capabilities like tool use and RAG, all natively within your Mia-Platform environment. This first version will be able to interact with Console APIs to simplify interactions with the different Console sections through a conversational interface interacting with the MCP Server.
```

We could also add that it will be available both locally and in remote. But probably for the v14 release only locally, the remote endpoint will be added later. But on this I will keep you updated

In v14, we've significantly enhanced the Software Catalog, improving both management and precision. Key updates include comprehensive item schema reviews, ensuring all definitions are standardized, fully documented, and easily accessible to stakeholders. Addiotionally, the manifests for the public items in the Mia-Platform catalog are now publicly available [here](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/public-catalog), offering greater transparency.

### Software Items Lifecycle renewed

We've also revamped the **release life cycle** with new stages like `Coming soon`,`Draft`,`Published`,`Maintenance`,`Deprecated`,`Archived`, and `Deleted`. These changes provide a more structured and adaptable framework for managing catalog items, from development to retirement, making the process more efficient and reliable.

![SC new release stages](img/software-catalog-release-stages.png)

### Headless Catalog

Furthermore, the marketplace APIs have been optimized and are now officially published on the API portal, ensuring easy access for all users.

### New Flow Manager Configurator layout

> The Flow Manager Configurator layout has been redesigned to provide enhanced control and visibility. Users can now easily view and manage flows, add external executors, and track commands, events, and state transitions, improving the efficiency and flexibility of self-service application management.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The Flow Manager Configurator layout has been redesigned to provide enhanced control and visibility, especially with the introduction of AI Agents within the sagas (see above). 

We've streamlined the interface to make it easier for users to view and manage flows, integrate external executors, and monitor commands, events, and state transitions, enhancing both the efficiency and flexibility of self-service application management.
```

![FM Configurator New Layout](img/flow-manager-configurator-new-layout.png)

> 

Reviewer 6: @robertaego qui aggiungerei Quality Assistant

### Clone Microservice repository via Cursor AI IDE 

Now you can easily clone your Microservice repository into the Cursor AI IDE directly from the Mia-Platform Console. This integration provides an easy way to access your service code, enabling a smoother development experience powered by the intelligence of Cursor AI, with support for both `ssh` and `https` protocols.

## Real time data integration

The Real-Time Data Integration capability is focusing on streamlining data collection processes from various sources, automatically enriching datasets with pertinent metadata for improved context and usability, and establishing governed mechanisms for controlled data access. This suite facilitates real-time decoupling between systems by enabling asynchronous data exchange, thereby providing the continuous, low-latency data flows necessary to fuel the core platform operations and power associated Artificial Intelligence functions.

### Data Lineage

Mia-Platform Data Catalog introduces **Data Lineage**, a powerful tool for understanding, visualizing, and describing the flow and transformations of data within an organization.  

![Data Lineage Overview](img/data-lineage-overview.png)

> This feature allows users to explore data relationships at two complementary levels: **Table Lineage** and **System of Record (SoR) Lineage**, providing both granular insights and a holistic overview of data flows.  
> By offering a detailed visualization of data dependencies and relationships, the **Lineage** view enables users to perform impact analyses, identify potential bottlenecks, and ensure compliance across data workflows.  
> Users can enrich the **Lineage** with **virtual assets** and **jobs**, allowing them to complete relationships not yet automatically retrieved and to clearly describe the context and purpose of each data flow.  
> If you're using **Fast Data Control Plane**, aggregation processes configured within your **Fast Data Projects** are automatically captured, making **Fast Data jobs** directly visible on the **Lineage** canvas.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This feature lets users explore data relationships on two complementary levels: **Table Lineage** and **System of Record (SoR) Lineage**, offering both detailed insights and a holistic view of data flows.  
By offering a detailed visualization of data dependencies and relationships, the **Lineage** view enables users to perform impact analyses, identify potential bottlenecks, and ensure compliance across data workflows.  
Users can enrich the **Lineage** with **virtual assets** and **jobs**, useful to fully describe the context and purpose of each data flow.  
When using **Fast Data Control Plane**, aggregation processes configured in **Fast Data Projects** can be automatically captured, making **Fast Data jobs** visible on the **Lineage** canvas.
```

To find out how it works and all the benefits of our Data Lineage solution, please refer to the related [documentation](/data_catalog/frontend/data_lineage.mdx).

### Integration Connector Agent

The **Integration Connector Agent** is a modular plugin designed to enable seamless **data integration** between external **sources** and **sinks**.  

> It collects data from external systems, processes and normalizes it, and then sends the data to a defined sink. The Agent supports multiple sources, including **webhooks** from services such as **Mia-Platform Console** and **Jira**, and integrates with **MongoDB** as the current supported sink.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It collects data from external systems, maps and processes it, and sends it to a defined sink. Supported ingestion sources include **webhooks** from tools like **Mia-Platform Console** and **Jira**, while **MongoDB** is the currently supported sink.  
```

Thanks to its pluggable architecture, it allows easy integration of new sources and sinks with minimal configuration effort.  

The Integration Connector Agent enables the collection of information from multiple sources and its storage in a centralized target destination, improving data accessibility, streamlining workflows, and supporting more effective reporting and decision-making across systems.

To learn more about all the features and how to configure it, visit the [official documentation](/runtime_suite/integration-connector-agent/10_overview.md).

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

### MongoDB connection support in Data Catalog

Data Catalog introduces **MongoDB** as a new natively **supported connection provider**.  
Once the connection has been established, Data Catalog accesses collections and, when available, detect their structure through **MongoDB JSON Schema validation**. This enables automatic extraction of fields and types, supporting more accurate metadata management.  
Database and collection retrieval behavior can be tailored through multiple configuration modes to better fit user needs.  
To learn more about how to configure it, visit the [official documentation](/data_catalog/frontend/data_catalog_connections.mdx).

```

> By automating data flows and ensuring consistency across platforms, the Integration Connector Agent centralizes data storage, enabling the collection of information from multiple sources and its storage in the target destination. It also facilitates **data synchronization and transformation**, improving data accessibility, streamlining workflows, and supporting more effective reporting and decision-making across systems.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Integration Connector Agent enables the collection of information from multiple sources and its storage in a centralized target destination, improving data accessibility, streamlining workflows, and supporting more effective reporting and decision-making across systems.
```

- **AI Agent for Service Composition:** Leveraging the context of the software catalog, this agent can understand your prompt and suggest a tailored list of existing services, also providing reference architectures. You can then quickly instantiate these services within your Projects, streamlining the setup process and accelerating development.

- **AI Agent for Faster Prototyping**: A simple, intuitive interface that helps you write source code and provides a visual preview of what you're building in real time. When combined with the Service Composition AI Agent, it significantly accelerates Project setup and prototype development.

- **AI Agent for Debugging**:  Within any Project, just type /debug in the Mia-Assistant chat to start exploring insights about your Runtime. Make sure the AI Settings toggle is enabled to grant Mia-Assistant access to your Project resources. Once activated, you can begin debugging effortlessly using Debug with Mia-Assistant.

### AI-Compliance for Data Catalog: AI-powered Data Discovery

> To meet the increasing demand for accessible, reliable, and governance-oriented Data Discovery, the Data Catalog has been enhanced with an AI Assistant. Through a dedicated user interface, users - *especially non-technical roles like Data Protection Officers (DPOs)* - can interact with a chat system to explore metadata and information about data assets (e.g., sensitive data fields) using natural language.
> 
> For example, the AI Assistant allows users to ask questions such as:
> 
> - "_What categories of personal data are processed?_"
> - "_Who has access to the data? Are they all internal employees or also external consultants?_"
> - "_Is there any data transfer, and if so, where? Within the EU or outside?_"
> - "_Which personal data assets are classified as sensitive under GDPR, and where are they stored?_"
> 
> Behind the scenes, the assistant leverages advanced LLM technologies (e.g., Gemini 1.5 Pro / 2.0 Flash) and structured metadata to deliver accurate, human-readable responses. It analyzes datasets, metadata, and governance information to surface well-structured, context-aware answers.
> 
> For DPOs, this transforms the Data Catalog from a technical repository into a practical tool for compliance and governance. It enables:
> 
> - Transparent, on-demand access to data-related information  
> - Simplified GDPR audit preparation and documentation  
> - Improved collaboration with data owners through a shared, accessible language  
> - Reduced dependency on technical teams, saving time and effort  
> 
> Ultimately, this AI-powered integration bridges the gap between legal, compliance, and data teams, making data governance more inclusive, efficient, and effective.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To meet the increasing demand for accessible, reliable, and governance-oriented Data Discovery, the Data Catalog has been enhanced with an AI Assistant. Through a dedicated user interface, users - *especially non-technical roles like Data Protection Officers (DPOs)* - can interact with a chat to explore all Data Catalog metadata information using natural language.

For example, the AI Compliance Assistant allows users to ask:

- *"What categories of personal data are processed?"*
- *"Who has access to the data? Are they all internal employees or also external consultants?"*
- *"Is there any data transfer, and if so, where? Within the EU or outside?"*
- *"Which personal data assets are classified as sensitive under GDPR, and where are they stored?"*

For DPOs, it enables transparent, on-demand access to data-related information, simplifies GDPR audit preparation and documentation, and reduces dependency on technical teams, saving time and effort.

This AI-powered integration bridges the gap between legal, compliance, and data teams, making governance more inclusive, efficient, and effective.
```

It collects data from external systems, maps and processes it, and sends it to a defined sink. Supported ingestion sources include **webhooks** from tools like **Mia-Platform Console** and **Jira**, while **MongoDB** is the currently supported sink.  
Thanks to its pluggable architecture, it allows easy integration of new sources and sinks with minimal configuration effort.  

The Integration Connector Agent enables the collection of information from multiple sources and its storage in a centralized target destination, improving data accessibility, streamlining workflows, and supporting more effective reporting and decision-making across systems.

To learn more about all the features and how to configure it, visit the [official documentation](/runtime_suite/integration-connector-agent/10_overview.md).

### MongoDB connection support in Data Catalog

Data Catalog introduces **MongoDB** as a new natively **supported connection provider**. Once connected, in case a JSON Schema validation is defined on a retrieved collection, Data Catalog can extract field structures and types to ensure accurate metadata management.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
